{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Angus J. Ferraro\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 College of Engineering,\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Email: a.j.ferraro@exeter.ac.uk\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Mathematics and Physical Sciences\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Telephone: +44 (0) 1392 725358\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 University of Exeter\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Web: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://emps.exeter.ac.uk/mathematics/staff/ajf223"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
emps.exeter.ac.uk/mathematics/staff/ajf223
}}}
\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 North Park Road,\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Twitter: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://twitter.com/angusferraro"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
angusferraro
}}}
\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Exeter, EX4 4QF, UK\par}
\cell}
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx7560
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 I am a physical climate scientist with interests in the terrestrial hydrological cycle and atmospheric radiative transfer. I use climate model simulations in conjunction with remote sensing observations to enhance fundamental physical understanding of the climate system. I am also interested in the emerging technology of climate geoengineering and how this interacts with conventional climate policy.\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Education\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2010-2014\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b PhD, Atmosphere, Oceans and Climate}, University of Reading, Reading, UK\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.1014284"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Atmospheric responses to geoengineering in the stratosphere
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 Investigating the impacts of an enhanced stratospheric sulphate layer on stratospheric dynamics and communication of these effects to the troposphere. Supervisors: Dr.\u160?Andrew Charlton-Perez and Prof.\u160?Eleanor Highwood.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2007-2010\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b BSc, Meteorology} (First Class Honours), University of Reading, Reading, UK\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 Dissertation: Factors influencing the climate sensitivity parameter in a zero-dimensional climate model. Supervisor: Prof.\u160?Keith Shine.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Employment\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2014 - present\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b Research Fellow}, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Process-Based Emergent Physical and Biogeochemical Feedbacks}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 Constraints on the lapse rate, water vapour and cloud climate feedbacks. Collaborators: Prof.\u160?Mat Collins and Dr.\u160?Hugo Lambert.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2009\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b Research assistant}, Met Office, Exeter, UK\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Impacts of Arctic sea ice retreat on ocean-atmosphere coupling}. Supervisor: Dr.\u160?Peili Wu.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Competitive Funding\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2015\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b EPSRC Vacation Bursary} to fund summer student (\u163?2000)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2011\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b Travel grant} to attend 2nd Transdisciplinary Summer School on Climate Engineering, Banff (USD 1000)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Awards and Recognition\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Awards\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.1428537"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Runner-up
}}}
, College of Engineering, Mathematics and Physical Sciences Early-Career Researcher poster competition, 2015.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 Overall Undergraduate Prize for academic excellence, University of Reading, 2010\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Media\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.theengineer.co.uk/in-depth/your-questions-answered-geoengineering/1018992.article"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Your questions answered: geoengineering
}}}
 (question-and-answer including me, Stephen Salter, Richard Darton and Andrew Charlton-Perez), The Engineer, 2014.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://environmentalresearchweb.org/cws/article/news/55832"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Sulphate geoengineering would harm tropical climate
}}}
, Environmental Research Web, 2014.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.walker-institute.ac.uk/publications/brochures/WalkerHighlights2012WEB.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Reflecting the Sun\u8217's energy to cool the planet
}}}
, Walker Institute Research Highlights, 2012.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nclimate1407"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Aerosol choices matter
}}}
, {\i Nature Climate Change}, {\b 2}, 75, 2012, doi:10.1038/nclimate1407.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Teaching Experience\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2015\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b Lecturer at University of Exeter Summer School on Global Climate Change.} {\i Bringing it home - regional climate variability and change.} July 2015\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b Supervision of summer student}. {\i Direct and indirect drivers of precipitation change in a geoengineered world.} June-July 2015.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2014-2015\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b Co-supervision of MMath student} with Hugo Lambert (University of Exeter) and contributions from Manoj Joshi (University of East Anglia)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Geoengineering and the tropical overturning circulation}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2011-2013\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b Demonstrator/tutor} for undergraduates at Department of Meteorology, University of Reading\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Introduction to Atmospheric Science}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Fluid Dynamics of Atmosphere and Oceans}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Invited Presentations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2015\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\i Bringing it home: regional climate change and variability}. Lecture at University of Exeter International Summer School on Global Climate Change: Environment, Technology and Society.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2013\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.1391985"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
{\i Stratospheric dynamics in a geoengineered world}
}}}
. Seminar at Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Geoengineering aerosols and how they might affect climate and circulation}. IOP Environmental Physics Members\u8217' Day, London.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2012\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\i Atmospheric responses to geoengineering in the stratosphere}. RMetS South-East local centre meeting, Reading.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Selected Presentations\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2016\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\i Classification of land-sea shifts in tropical precipitation using temperature and moisture change}, (poster), Workshop on Atmospheric Circulation and Regional Climate Change, University of Reading, UK.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2015\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\i Physical mechanisms of tropical climate feedbacks revealed by temperature and moisture trends}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "[http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.1428537"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
(poster)
}}}
 AGU Fall Meeting, San Francisco, USA.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Physical mechanisms of tropical climate feedbacks revealed by temperature and moisture trends}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "[http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.1428537"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
(poster)
}}}
 CFMIP conference, Asilomar, USA.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Physical mechanisms of tropical climate feedbacks revealed by temperature and moisture trends}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.1335975"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
(poster)
}}}
 EGU General Assembly, Vienna, Austria.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2013\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\i Effects of different geoengineering aerosol choices on stratospheric dynamics}, (poster) 3rd NCAS Chemistry-Climate Interaction Meeting, Cambridge, UK.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Impact of aerosol & dimmed-sun geoengineering on stratospheric dynamics}, 3rd GeoMIP workshop, Potsdam, Germany.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Atmospheric responses to stratospheric aerosol geoengineering}, EGU General Assembly, Vienna, Austria.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2012\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\i Stratospheric heating by geoengineering aerosols}, 2nd GeoMIP workshop, Exeter, UK.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Professional Activities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Peer reviewer for {\i Environmental Research Letters}, {\i Journal of Geophysical Research} and others. Full review record available via {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://publons.com/author/589854/angus-ferraro#profile"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Publons
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Grant application reviewer for US National Science Foundation.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2015-present\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 Member of American Geophysical Union\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2013-present\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 Member of European Geoscience Union\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2010-present\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 Member of Royal Meteorological Society\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Outreach\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Personal {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://angusferraro.wordpress.com"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
blog
}}}
 summarising recent advances in climate science; contributions to the WCD blog (Department of Meteorology, University of Reading), the GeoBlog (Oxford Geoengineering Programme, University of Oxford) and the GeoLog (European Geosciences Union).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2015\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 Contributor on geoengineering for Simon Clark\u8217's YouTube series, \u8216'Crash Course in Atmospheric Physics\u8217'.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 \u8216'Britain Needs Scientists\u8217' schools event, University of Exeter.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2013\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 Runner-up in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://earthj13.imascientist.org.uk/profile/angusferraro/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
I\u8217'm a Scientist, Get Me Out of Here
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 Finalist in University of Reading \u8216'3-minute thesis\u8217' competition.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2011-2013\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 Volunteer classroom science assistant at Highdown School, Reading.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Responsibilities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2014-present\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 Convenor of Physical Climate Research Group at Exeter Climate Systems, University of Exeter\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2014\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 Organiser of Exeter Climate Systems collaborative research day.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2011-2013\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 Convenor of Stratosphere & Climte Research Group and Strathour seminar series at Department of Meteorology, University of Reading\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2011\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 Member of \u8216'Visiting Scientist\u8217' committee at Department of Meteorology, University of Reading (visitor: Kevin Trenberth)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Publications\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Ferraro, A. J. and H. G. Griffiths, 2016: Quantifying the temperature-independent effect of stratospheric aerosol geoengineering on global-mean precipitation in a multi- model ensemble. {\i Environmental Research Letters}, {\b 11}, 034012, doi:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://10.1088/1748-9326/11/3/034012"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
10.1088/1748-9326/11/3/034012
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Ferraro, A. J., F. H. Lambert, M. Collins, and G. Miles, 2015: Physical mechanisms of tropical climate feedbacks revealed by temperature and moisture trends. {\i Journal of Climate}, {\b 28}, 8968-8987, doi:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://10.1175/JCLI-D-15-0253.1"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
10.1175/JCLI-D-15-0253.1
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Ferraro, A. J., M. Collins, and F. H. Lambert, 2015: A hiatus in the stratosphere?. {\i Nature Climate Change}, {\b 5}, 497-498, doi:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nclimate2624"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
10.1038/nclimate2624
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 Citations: 1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Ferraro, A. J., A. J. Charlton-Perez, and E. J. Highwood, 2015: Stratospheric dynamics and midlatitude jets under geoengineering with space mirrors and sulfate and titania aerosols. {\i J. Geophys. Res. Atmos.}, {\b 120}, 414-429, doi:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/2014jd022734"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
10.1002/2014jd022734
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Ferraro, A. J., A. J. Charlton-Perez, and E. J. Highwood, 2014: A Risk-Based Framework for Assessing the Effectiveness of Stratospheric Aerosol Geoengineering. {\i PLoS ONE}, {\b 9}, e88849, doi:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0088849"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
10.1371/journal.pone.0088849
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 Citations: 3\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 Part of the PLOS \u8216'Responding to Climate Change\u8217' collection\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Ferraro, A. J., E. J. Highwood, and A. J. Charlton-Perez, 2014: Weakened tropical circulation and reduced precipitation in response to geoengineering. {\i Environ. Res. Lett.}, {\b 9}, 014001, doi:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/9/1/014001"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
10.1088/1748-9326/9/1/014001
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 Citations: 9\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 One of 25 highlights of 2014 in {\i Environmental Research Letters}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 Extensive media coverage including BBC, Guardian, The Independent, phys.org, New Zealand Herald, Bangkok Post, Hindustan Times.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Ferraro, A. J., E. J. Highwood, and A. J. Charlton-Perez, 2011: Stratospheric heating by potential geoengineering aerosols. {\i Geophysical Research Letters}, {\b 38}, doi:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dx.doi.org/10.1029/2011gl049761"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
10.1029/2011gl049761
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 Citations: 13\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 Research Highlight in {\i Nature Climate Change}\par}
}
